# Nobel Prize for an Ass

Dr.Singh: Some scientists hope that in the future they will be able to make babies in test tubes.

Srila Prabhupada: Test tubes? Dr.Singh: Yes, they intend to combine male and female elements in biological laboratories.

Srila Prabhupada: If they begin with living entities, what is the purpose of the test tube? It is only a place for combination, but so is the womb.

Where is the credit for the scientists if this is already being done in nature's test tube? Karandhara: It is already being done by nature, but when some scientist does it, people will give him the Nobel Prize.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes, that is stated in Srimad-Bhagavatam: sva-vid-varahostra-kharaih samstutah purusah pasuh.[4] This verse indicates that those who praise men who are like animals are no better than dogs, hogs, camels and asses.

Sva means "dog," vid-varaha means "stool-eating hog," ustra means "camel," and khara means "ass." If the Nobel Prize is given to a scientist who is a rascal, the men on the committee who give him that prize are no better than dogs, hogs, camels and asses.

We don't accept them as human beings.

One animal is praised by another animal.

Where is the credit in that? If the men on the committee are no better than animals, anyone who receives the Nobel Prize in science is fool number one, because animals are praising him, not human beings.

Dr.Singh: For some scientists, the Nobel Prize is the ultimate.

Srila Prabhupada: They are rascals.

They are speaking nonsense, and because they are juggling words, others are being misled.

Brahmananda Swami.

Nobel is the person who invented dynamite.

Srila Prabhupada: He has created great misfortune, and he has left his money for creating further misfortune.

[Laughter.] Brahmananda Swami.

The Gita says that demoniac people perform acts meant to destroy the world.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

Ugra-karmanah ksayaya jagato 'hitah (Bg.16.9).

They perform acts meant for inauspiciousness and the destruction of the world.

