# Minimum Words, Maximum Solution

Srila Prabhupada: The individual soul is never lost.

He does not die, nor is he born.

He simply changes from one body to another, just as one changes garments.

This is perfect science.

Dr.Singh: But why don't scientists accept this? Srila Prabhupada: They are not nice men.

They are rascals.

They are not even gentlemen.

Under appropriate circumstances, gentlemen will have some shyness or some shame.

But these men are shameless.

They cannot properly answer our challenges, yet they shamelessly claim that they are scientists and that they will create life.

They are not even gentlemen.

At least I regard them like that.

A gentleman will be ashamed to speak nonsense.

Dr.Singh: They do not think before they speak.

Srila Prabhupada: That means that they are not human beings.

A human being thinks twice before saying anything.

Krsna makes the presence of life within the body so easy to understand.

He says: dehino 'smin yatha dehe kaumaram yauvanam jara tatha dehantara-praptir dhiras tatra na muhyati ["As the embodied soul continually passes, in this body, from boyhood to youth to old age, the soul similarly passes into another body at death.

The self-realized soul is not bewildered by such a change." (Bg.2.13)] In these two lines, Krsna solves the whole biological problem.

That is knowledge.

Minimum words, maximum solution.

Volumes of books expounding nonsense have no meaning.

Materialistic scientists are like croaking frogs: ka-ka-ka, ka-ka-ka.

[Srila Prabhupada imitates the sound of a croaking frog, and the others laugh.] The frogs are thinking, "Oh, we are talking very nicely," but the result is that the snake finds them and says, "Oh, here is a nice frog!" [Srila Prabhupada imitates the sound of a snake eating a frog.] Bup! Finished.

When death comes, everything is finished.

The materialistic scientists are croaking--ka-ka-ka--but when death comes, their scientific industry is finished, and they become dogs, cats or something like that.

The Third Morning Walk: April 28, 1973 Recorded on April 28, 1973, in Cheviot Hills Park, Los Angeles Srila Prabhupada:is accompanied by Dr.Singh, Karandhara dasa adhikari and other students.

