# Scientists as Thieves

Srila Prabhupada: [holding a rose in his hand].

Can any scientist create a flower like this in the laboratory? Dr.Singh: That is not possible.

Srila Prabhupada: No, it is not.

Just see how wonderfully Krsna's energy is working! No scientist can create a flower like this in his laboratory.

They cannot create even a few grains of sand, yet they claim to possess the most advanced intellects in the universe.

This is foolish.

Dr.Singh: They take matter from Krsna, manipulate it, and then claim that they have created something wonderful.

Srila Prabhupada: At least if they would admit that they have taken the matter from Krsna, that would be good.

We understand that everything comes from Krsna.

Dr.Singh: But they will not admit that they are taking anything from Krsna.

Instead they say that they are the creators.

Srila Prabhupada: How have they created anything? They take the sand and mix it with some chemicals and make glass.

They have not created the sand or the chemicals; they have taken them from the earth.

How have they created anything? Dr.Singh: They say, "We have taken the materials from nature." Srila Prabhupada: "From nature" means from a person.

They have taken from nature, but they are thieves because everything in nature belongs to Krsna.

Isavasyam idam sarvam: "Everything is God's creation." (Isopanisad 1) In Bhagavad-gita Krsna states that if one does not perform yajna [sacrifice], he is a thief.

Yajna means acknowledging that things have been taken from Krsna.

We should think, "Krsna, You have given us many, many things for our maintenance." This much acknowledgment Krsna wants; that's all.

Otherwise, what can He expect from you? What are you in His presence? We should acknowledge Krsna's kindness.

Therefore, before we eat we offer the food to Krsna and say, "Krsna, You have given us this nice food, so first You taste it." Then we eat it.

Krsna is not hungry, yet He can eat the whole world and then again produce it exactly as it was.

Purnasya purnam adaya purnam evavasisyate (Isopanisad Invocation).

Krsna is so perfect that if you take from Krsna all of Krsna's energy, all the original energy is still with Him.

That is perfect conservation of energy.

