# Word Jugglery and World Crisis

Srila Prabhupada: It is said in the Vedas, yasmin vijnate sarvam evam vijnatam bhavati: "If one knows the Absolute Truth, then all other things become known." I am not a Ph.D., yet I can challenge the scientists.

Why? Because I know Krsna, the Absolute Truth.

Yasmin sthito na duhkhena gurunapi vicalyate: "If one is situated in Krsna consciousness, then even in the greatest calamities he will not be disturbed." (Bg.6.22) Srimad-Bhagavatam (1.5.22) declares, avicyuto 'rthah kavibhir nirupito yad uttamasloka-gunanuvarnanam: "Great personalities have decided that Krsna consciousness is the perfection of life." This kind of knowledge is required.

Not that we do some research, come up with a theory, and after fifteen years say, "No, no, it is not right--it is another thing." That is not science; that is child's play.

Dr.Singh: That is how they discover things--by research.

Srila Prabhupada: And what is the cost of the research? It is a scientific method for drawing money from others, that's all.

In other words, it is cheating.

Scientists juggle words like plutonium, photons, hydrogen and oxygen, but what good will people get from this? When people hear this jugglery of words, what can they say? One scientist explains something to some extent, and then another rascal comes along and explains it again, but differently, with different words.

And all the time the phenomenon has remained the same.

What advancement has been made? They have simply produced volumes of books.

Now there is a petrol problem.

Scientists have created it.

If the petrol supply dwindles away, what will these rascal scientists do? They are powerless to do anything about it.

