# Setting the Real Problems Aside

Srila Prabhupada: The Svetasvatara Upanisad says: kesagra-sata-bhagasya satamsah sadrsatmakah jivah suksma-svarupo 'yam sankhyatito hi cit-kanah According to this verse, the measurement of the soul, the proprietor of the body, is one tenthousandth part of the tip of a hair.

This is very small--atomic.

But because of that atomic spiritual energy, my body is working.

That atomic spiritual energy is within the body, and therefore the body works, and the airplane flies.

Is it so difficult to understand? Suppose a man thinks himself very stout and strong.

Why is he stout and strong? It is only because within him there exists a spiritual spark.

As soon as the small spiritual spark is gone, his strength and vigor disappear, and the vultures come and eat his body.

If scientists say that matter is the cause and origin of life, then let us ask them to bring back to life just one dead man, one great man like Professor Einstein.

Let them inject some chemicals so that just one dead man may come back to life and work again.

But this they cannot do.

There are so many things they do not know, but still they are called scientists.

Dr.Singh: Sometimes when a problem is too dreadfully serious, we tend to take it lightly.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

When a monkey confronts a tiger, the monkey closes its eyes, and the tiger immediately attacks.

Similarly, if scientists cannot solve a problem, they may think, "All right, let it go on." This is actually what they are doing, because our real problem is death.

No one wants to die, but scientists cannot stop death.

They speak superficially about death because they cannot give any relief from it.

We do not wish to die, we do not wish to become old, and we do not wish to become diseased.

But what help can the scientists offer? They cannot do anything about it.

They have set aside the major problems.

