# The Origin of Mystic Power

Srila Prabhupada: Yogis are mainly concerned with developing different mystic powers.

A yogi can walk on the water without drowning.

The law of gravity does not operate on him.

That is a mystic power called laghima.

Laghima means that a person can become lighter than cotton and counteract the law of gravity.

The yoga system simply develops the inconceivable potency already present in the practitioner.

These boys are swimming [gesturing to surf bathers], but I cannot swim.

Yet that swimming power is potential within me; I simply have to practice it.

So, if yogic power is so potent in the human being, think how much more yogic power God has.

Therefore, in the Vedas He is called Yogesvara, which means "master of all mystic power." In the Bhagavad-gita (10.8) Krsna says, aham sarvasya prabhavo mattah sarvam pravartate: "I am the source of all spiritual and material worlds.

Everything emanates from Me." Unless we accept this statement from God, there is no conclusive explanation to the origin of material nature.

God cannot be understood without accepting the existence of mystic power, but if you understand God scientifically, then you will understand everything.

Dr.Singh: So do you mean to say that science has started from an intermediate point--not from the original point? Srila Prabhupada: Yes, that is it exactly.

They are ignorant of the origin.

The scientists start from one point--but where does that point come from? That they do not know, in spite of vast research.

One has to accept that the original source is God, who is full of all mystic powers and from whom everything emanates.

He Himself says in the Bhagavad-gita, aham sarvasya prabhavo mattah sarvam pravartate: "I am the source of all spiritual and material worlds.

Everything emanates from Me." Our conclusions are not based on blind faith; they are most scientific.

Matter comes from life.

In life--in the origin--there are unlimited material resources; that is the great mystery of creation.

If you drop a needle, it will fall immediately, but a bird weighing several pounds can float in the air.

We must establish the origin of this floating.

If we study nature, we find that every living entity has some mystic power.

A man cannot live within the water for more than a few hours, yet a fish lives there continuously.

is that not mystic power? Dr.Singh: It is mystic power for me, but not for the fish.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

That is because mystic power is not uniformly distributed.

But all the mystic powers exist in God, the origin of everything.

I derive some of His mystic power, you derive some, and the birds derive some.

But the storehouse of mystic power is God.

There are eight basic types of mystic powers.

Some of them are laghima (by which one can become lighter than a feather), mahima (by which one can become bigger than a mountain), prapti (which enables one to capture anything he likes) and isitva (by which one can completely subdue and control another being).

Another type of mystic power can be seen in the sun, because from the sunshine innumerable things are inexplicably produced.

Unless the scientists accept the existence of mystic power, they cannot explain these phenomena.

They are simply beating around the bush.

Dr.Singh: A clever scientist may say anything to prove his point, without actually proving it.

A real scientist must reach the ultimate, original cause--the final analysis.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes, unless he finds the ultimate source, he is not actually practicing science.

Dr.Singh: Does understanding mysticism mean knowing that every day our bodies are dying? Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

Dr.Singh: But the average man does not think he is dying.

Srila Prabhupada: That is due to foolishness.

Every moment he is dying, but he is thinking, "I shall live forever." Actually, death begins from the very moment of birth.

Our analysis of the problem is that since people are dying, we should stop their death.

But the so-called scientists are not only accelerating the process of death, but also refusing to take constructive advice to correct themselves.

The Seventh Morning Walk: May 8, 1973 Recorded on May 8, 1973, on the shores of the Pacific Ocean near Los Angeles Srila Prabhupada:is accompanied by Dr.Singh and other students.

