# Darwin Condemned

Dr.Singh: If a human being doesn't attain liberation, does he have to pass through all 8,400,000 species of life before again coming to the human form? Srila Prabhupada: No, only in the lower forms of life does the living entity progress step by step, according to the laws of nature.

In the human form of life, he is endowed with developed consciousness--he has discretion.

Therefore if he is advanced in consciousness, he is not going to get the body of a dog or cat; he will get another human body.

prapya punya-krtam lokan usitva sasvatih samah sucinam srimatam gehe yoga-bhrasto 'bhijayate [16] The word yoga-bhrastah refers to someone practicing yoga who somehow or other could not fully succeed.

There's no question of evolution here; he is again awarded a human body.

He does not get a cat's body or a dog's body.

As with the apartments we were discussing, if you can pay more, you get a nicer apartment.

You do not have to come to the lower-class apartment first.

Dr.Singh: What you have been saying completely contradicts Darwin's theory of evolution.

Srila Prabhupada: Darwin is a rascal.

What is his theory? We kick out Darwin's philosophy.

The more we kick out Darwin's philosophy, the more we advance in spiritual consciousness.

Dr.Singh: Many scientists doubt Darwin's theories.

But Darwin's supporters say that life started from matter and evolved from unicellular organisms to multicellular organisms.

They believe that higher species like animals and men did not exist at the beginning of creation.

Srila Prabhupada: Darwin and his followers are rascals.

If originally there were no higher species, why do they exist now? Also, why do the lower species still exist? For example, at the present moment we see both the intellectual person and the foolish ass.

Why do both these entities exist simultaneously? Why hasn't the ass form evolved upward and disappeared? Why do we never see a monkey giving birth to a human? The Darwinists' theory that human life began in such and such an era is nonsense.

Bhagavad-gita says that you can directly transmigrate to any species of life you like, according to your efforts.

Sometimes I travel to America, sometimes to Australia and sometimes to Africa.

The countries already exist.

I am simply traveling through them.

It is not that because I have come to America, I have created or become America.

And there are many countries I have not yet seen.

Does that mean they do not exist? The scientists who support Darwin are nonsensical.

Bhagavad-gita clearly says that all the species exist simultaneously, and that you can go to whichever species you like.

You can even go up to the kingdom of God, if you so desire.

All this is declared in Bhagavad-gita by Lord Krsna.

The Ninth Morning Walk: May 13, 1973 Recorded on May 13, 1973, in Cheviot Hills Park, Los Angeles Srila Prabhupada:is accompanied by Dr.Singh, Karandhara dasa adhikari and other students.

