# Evolution From Human to Dog

Srila Prabhupada: The so-called scientists are putting their faith in a fraudulent theory.

Krsna says, aham sarvasya prabhavah: "I am the origin of everything." (Bg.10.8) Krsna is life; Krsna is not a dead stone.

Dr.Singh: So matter is caused by life? Srila Prabhupada: Yes, and matter grows upon life; my body grows upon me, the spirit soul.

For example, I have put on this overcoat, which is made according to the size of my body.

But i would be foolish if I thought, "I am this overcoat." Student: Srila Prabhupada, mineralogists have proven that mountains are growing by sedimentary activity.

Is this growth due to the presence of the spirit soul? Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

Srimad-Bhagavatam describes mountains as the bones of God, and the grass as the hair on His body.

So, in this sense, God has the biggest body.

Dr.Singh: Srila Prabhupada, what is the difference between the transmigration of souls in animal bodies and the transmigration of human souls? Srila Prabhupada: Animals transmigrate in only one direction--upward--but human beings can transmigrate to either a higher or a lower form of life.

The body is awarded according to the living entity's desire.

The lower animals have one kind of desire, but the human being has thousands and millions of desires--animal desires as well as human desires.

By nature's law, the lower species are coming up from animal forms to the higher, human forms.

But once you come to the human form, if you don't cultivate Krsna consciousness you may return to the body of a cat or dog.

