# Nirvana

Dr.Singh: The scientists have no information that there is evolution up or down from the human platform.

Srila Prabhupada: Therefore I say they are rascals.

They have no knowledge, yet they still claim to be scientists.

Real science is in the Bhagavad-gita, where Krsna says, yanti deva-vrata devan pitrn yanti pitr-vratah (Bg.9.25).

This means that whatever one worships in this life will determine the type of body he gets in his next life.

But if one worships Krsna, he ends the process of transmigration entirely.

Yam prapya na nivartante tad dhama: "When one goes to that supreme abode of Mine, he never returns [to this material world of birth and death]." (Bg.8.21) Promotion to the spiritual world (samsiddhim paramam) is the ultimate perfection of human life.

Read Bhagavad-gita; everything is there.

But the scientists have no idea of this perfection; they do not even believe in the existence of the living entity apart from the gross body.

Dr.Singh: They do not speak of the living entity; they speak only of bodies.

Student: Their conception is something akin to Buddhism.

The Buddhists say that the body is like a house.

Just as a house is put together with wood, the body is put together with chemicals.

And when the body dies, it is just like a house that falls apart.

Just as the house becomes simply pieces of wood and then there is no more house, so the body becomes simply chemicals, and there is no more body and no more life.

Srila Prabhupada: That state is called nirvana.

And then, with the ingredients, you can build another house or another body.

That is Buddhism.

The Buddhists do not have any information regarding the soul.

