# Fighting Ignorance With Arguments and Knowledge

Student: Some people say that one reason for the Vietnam war was that the Communists were atheists.

It was a dispute between the theists and the atheists.

At least that is one excuse given for the war.

Srila Prabhupada: We are also prepared to kill the atheists.

But that killing is by preaching.

If I kill your ignorance, it can also be called killing.

Killing doesn't necessarily mean that everyone has to take the sword.

Dr.Singh: A new method of warfare? Srila Prabhupada: No, fighting ignorance with arguments and knowledge has always existed.

The bodily conception of life is animal life.

The animal does not know about matter and spirit.

And one who is under the bodily conception of life is no better than an animal.

When an animal "talks," the intelligent man laughs.

Such "talk" is nonsense.

The animal is not talking knowledge.

Student: At least the animals live by certain codes.

They do not kill unnecessarily, and they only eat when necessary, whereas humans kill unnecessarily and eat unnecessarily.

So in one sense humans are lower than animals.

Srila Prabhupada: Therefore we must suffer more than animals.

Krsna consciousness is not a bogus, sentimental religious movement.

It is a scientific movement designed to alleviate human suffering.

Dr.Singh: Scientists and other people say that everything in the universe is happening by chance.

Srila Prabhupada: So, are they also writing books on the subject by chance? Karandhara: The books are also written by chance, they say.

Srila Prabhupada: So, what is their credit? By chance, anything can be written.

Dr.Singh: The French scientist Dr.J.

Monod got the Nobel Prize in 1965.

He says that everything started by chance--that by chance certain chemicals combined and formed the basic molecules.

Srila Prabhupada: But where did the chemicals come from? Dr.Singh: According to him, they were created simply by chance, and when the necessity arose, molecules of the chemicals reoriented themselves.

Srila Prabhupada: If everything was happening by chance, how can there be necessity? How can he speak of chance and necessity in the same breath? It is nonsense.

If everything is directed by chance, why do people send their children to school? Why not let them grow up by chance? Suppose I break a law.

If I say, "Well, it just happened by chance," will I be excused? Dr.Singh: So, is crime caused by ignorance? Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

That is the cause: my ignorance.

Student: It would certainly be stupid to say that a beautiful instrument like a violin was made by chance.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

It is most regrettable that such a rascal can get recognition.

He is talking foolishness and getting recognition.

The Tenth Morning Walk: May 14, 1973 Recorded on May 14, 1973, in Cheviot Hills Park, Los Angeles Srila Prabhupada:is accompanied by Dr.Singh and other students.

