# Symptoms of God

Srila Prabhupada: Without accepting the principle of inconceivable power, no one can understand God.

God is not so cheap that any so-called yogi can become God.

Such imitation gods are for rascals and fools.

Those who are intelligent will test whether or not such a person has inconceivable power.

We accept Krsna as God because He has demonstrated His inconceivable power.

As a child, Krsna lifted a big hill.

And Lord Rama, an incarnation of Krsna, constructed a bridge without pillars by floating stones on water.

So one should not accept God cheaply.

Nowadays, some rascal comes along and says, "I am an incarnation of God," and another rascal accepts him.

But Lord Rama and Lord Krsna actually demonstrated Their inconceivable power.

Sometimes people say the descriptions of Their activities are just stories or myths.

But these literatures were composed by Valmiki,[20] Vyasadeva and other acaryas, who are all great and vastly learned sages.

Why would these great sages simply waste their time writing mythology? They never said it was mythology.

They treated the accounts as actual facts.

For instance, in the Tenth Canto of Srimad-Bhagavatam, Vyasadeva tells of a forest fire in Vrndavana.

All of Krsna's cowherd boyfriends became disturbed and looked to Krsna for help.

He simply swallowed up the whole fire.

That is inconceivable mystic power.

That is God.

Because we are tiny samples of God, or Krsna, we also possess inconceivable mystic power within our bodies--but only in very minute quantities.

