# The Devotee Beyond Desires

Srila Prabhupada: Now, who knows the difference between the karmi, the jnani, the yogi and the bhakta? Hrdayananda dasa Goswami.

The karmi wants to enjoy the gross senses, the jnani wants to enjoy the subtle mind--to mentally speculate--and the yogi wants to manipulate the universe with mystic powers.

Srila Prabhupada: These are all material powers.

Hrdayananda dasa Goswami.

And the bhakta has no material desires.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

And unless one is actually desireless, he cannot be happy.

The karmi, the jnani and the yogi are all full of desires; therefore they are unhappy.

Karmis are the most unhappy, the jnani is a little less unhappy, and the yogi is still more advanced.

But the bhakta, the devotee, is perfectly happy.

Some yogis have a mystic power that enables them to snatch pomegranates from trees in another country, thousands of miles away.

Others can fly without an airplane.

And some yogis can hypnotize anyone.

Then they point to someone and say, "This is God," and their victims believe them.

I have actually seen such magical nonsense.

Krsnakanti: Is the pure devotee more merciful than Krsna? Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

A real Vaisnava, a real devotee, is even more merciful than Krsna.

Take Lord Jesus Christ, for example.

It is said that Lord Jesus took everyone's sins upon himself, yet he was crucified.

We can see how merciful he was.

Today, rascals think, "Let us go on committing sinful activities; Christ has taken a contract to suffer for us." [There is a long, thoughtful silence.]

