# A Mustard Seed in a Bag of Mustard Seeds

Dr.Singh: Srila Prabhupada, biologists tell us that there are many species of life that can reproduce without sex.

Do the Vedas agree with this? Srila Prabhupada: Oh, yes.

Dr.Singh: So we cannot curtail their reproduction? Srila Prabhupada: No.

How could we? There are so many living entities that have come into this material world to enjoy life, and therefore reproduction must continue.

This material world is like a jail.

You cannot put an end to jails.

As soon as one man leaves the jail, another is ready to enter it.

This same question was discussed by Lord Caitanya Mahaprabhu.[21] One of His devotees, Vasudeva Datta, said, "Please take all the living entities of this entire universe and release them from material bondage.

And if You think they are too sinful to be rectified, then just give all their sins to me." But Caitanya Mahaprabhu said, "Suppose I were to take this entire universe and all the living entities with it.

This is only one of innumerable universes.

It is just like a mustard seed in a huge bag of mustard seeds.

If you removed one seed from the bag, what would be the difference?" So reproduction cannot actually be stopped.

Living entities are unlimited in number, and therefore it must continue.

Dr.Singh: You have said that this material world is like a correction house to teach one to get out of material entanglement and the cycle of repeated birth and death.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

Therefore you must practice Krsna consciousness.

The Fourteenth Morning Walk: December 3, 1973 Recorded on December 3, 1973, on the shores of the Pacific Ocean near Los Angeles Srila Prabhupada:is accompanied by Dr.Singh, Dr.W.H.Wolf-Rottkay and other students.

