# The Origin of the Interplanetary Gases

Dr.Singh: The scientists say that at one point the earth was composed of dust particles floating in some gaseous material.

Then, in due course, this colloidal suspension condensed and formed the earth.

Srila Prabhupada: That may be, but where did the gas come from? Dr.Singh: They say it just existed! Srila Prabhupada: Krsna says in Bhagavad-gita (7.4): bhumir apo 'nalo vayuh kham mano buddhir eva ca ahankara itiyam me bhinna prakrtir astadha "Earth, water, fire, air, ether, mind, intelligence and false ego--all together these eight comprise My separated material energies." Here Krsna explains that vayu (gas) came from Him.

And finer than vayu is kham (ether), finer than ether is mind, finer than mind is intelligence, finer than intelligence is false ego, and finer than false ego is the soul.

But the scientists do not know this.

They understand only gross things.

They mention gas, but where does the gas come from? Dr.Singh: That they cannot answer.

Srila Prabhupada: But we can answer.

From Srimad-Bhagavatam we know that gas has come from kham, or ether, ether comes from mind, mind comes from intelligence, intelligence comes from false ego, and false ego comes from the soul.

Dr.Singh: The scientists argue that before Darwin's biophysical type of evolution could take place, there had to be what they call prebiotic chemistry, or chemical evolution.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

And the term "chemical evolution" means that chemicals have an origin, and that origin is spirit, or life.

A lemon produces citric acid, and our bodies produce many chemicals in urine, blood, and bodily secretions.

This is proof that life produces chemicals, not that chemicals produce life.

Dr.Singh: Scientists say that once the seed of life is present in the cells, then the living entity automatically develops and functions.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes, but who gives the seed? In the Bhagavad-gita (7.10) Krsna answers this question.

Bijam mam sarva-bhutanam viddhi partha sanatanam: "O son of Prtha, know that I am the original seed of all existences." And later (14.4): sarva-yonisu kaunteya murtayah sambhavanti yah tasam brahma mahad yonir aham bija-pradah pita "It should be understood that all species of life, O son of Kunti, are made possible by birth in this material nature, and that I am the seed-giving father."

