# The Frustration of the Atheists

Dr.Singh: The difficulty is that in a group of atheists, you can't prove the existence of God.

Srila Prabhupada: The atheists are rascals.

Let us teach the others--those who are reasonable.

Everything has been made by someone: the sand has been made by someone, the water has been made by someone, and the sky has been made by someone.

Krsna consciousness means learning who that someone is.

Dr.Singh: The scientists will say, "Present that someone to me so I can see Him." Srila Prabhupada: And I answer them, "I am presenting that someone to you, but you have to take the training as well." You have to qualify your eyes to see that someone.

If you are blind, but you do not want to go to the physician, how will you be cured of your blindness and see? You have to be treated; that is the injunction.

Student: That step requires faith.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes, but not blind faith--practical faith.

If you want to learn anything, you must go to an expert.

That is not blind faith; it is practical faith.

You cannot learn anything by yourself.

Student: If somebody is actually sincere, will he always meet a bona fide guru? Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

Guru-krsna-prasade paya bhakti-lata-bija.

Krsna is within you, and as soon as He sees that you are sincere, He will send you to the right person.

Student: And if you are not completely sincere, you will get a cheater for a teacher? Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

If you want to be cheated, Krsna will send you to a cheater.

Krsna is superintelligent.

If you are a cheater, He will cheat you perfectly.

But if you are actually sincere, then He will give you the right guidance.

In Bhagavad-gita (15.15) Krsna says, sarvasya caham hrdi sannivisto mattah smrtir jnanam apohanam ca: "I am seated in everyone's heart, and from Me come remembrance, knowledge and forgetfulness." Krsna speaks of both remembrance and forgetfulness.

If you are a cheater, Krsna will give you the intelligence to forget Him forever.

Student: But the atheists are in control.

They have the dominance.

Srila Prabhupada: One kick of maya and all their dominance is finished in one second.

That is the nature of maya.

The atheists are under control, but due to maya, or illusion, they think they're free.

moghasa mogha-karmano mogha jnana vicetasah raksasim asurim caiva prakrtim mohinim sritah "Those who are bewildered are attracted by demoniac and atheistic views.

In that deluded condition, their hopes for liberation, their fruitive activities and their culture of knowledge are all defeated." (Bg.9.12) Because they are bewildered, all their hopes are frustrated.

That is stated here in Bhagavad-gita, and that is actually happening.

So many of their big plans, like this moon project, are frustrated, but they still claim that they can dominate nature.

Dr.Singh: They do not want to come to their senses.

Srila Prabhupada: Therefore they are rascals.

