# Scientists Bravely Going to Hell

Srila Prabhupada: A sensible man will take a good lesson, but a rascal will never take a good lesson.

There is a story of a great poet named Kalidasa, who was a great rascal also.

Once, Kalidasa was sitting on the branch of a tree and simultaneously cutting it.

A gentleman asked him, "Why are you cutting this tree limb? You will fall down." Kalidasa replied, "No, no, I will not fall down." So he kept cutting the limb, and he fell down.

The conclusion is that he was a rascal because he would not take good advice.

By their so-called scientific advancement, scientists are going to hell.

But they do not listen when they are told; therefore they are rascals.

Rascals repeatedly make a plan, see it frustrated, and again make another plan.

This plan is also frustrated, so they make another plan.

Yet when we try to explain to them that all their materialistic plans will be unsuccessful and useless, they refuse to listen.

That is rascaldom.

The rascals repeatedly chew the chewed.

At home, in the street, at the nightclub, at the theater--wherever he is, sex in its different varieties is his only pleasure.

Student: Srila Prabhupada, one could say that that is bravery.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes, you can say that, but that bravery is their rascaldom.

They are bravely going to hell, that's all.

Once, one man was chasing another man, and the man who was chasing asked, "Why are you fleeing? Are you afraid of me?" The other man replied, "I am not afraid of you.

Why should I not run? Why should I stop?" In the same way, the gross materialist is bravely going to hell.

"Why should I stop with my sinful activities?" he says.

"I will Bravely face any reaction." Dr.Singh: They are crazy.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes, crazy.

The Vedas say that once a man becomes crazy, or haunted by ghosts, he speaks all kinds of nonsense.

Similarly, anyone under the influence of the material energy is crazy.

Therefore he talks only nonsense, that's all.

Though scientists are not expert in science, they are expert in bluffing others and juggling words.

