# Here Is the Proof

Dr.Wolf-Rottkay: The materialists would be more sincere if they said, "We don't want to be taken out of our dream.

We want to continue trying to enjoy our senses with all our machines." But they will not admit that their attempts to enjoy always fail.

Srila Prabhupada: That is their foolishness.

Eventually they have to admit it.

Dr.Wolf-Rottkay: But they say, "Try, try again." Srila Prabhupada: How can they try? Suppose you cannot see because you are suffering from cataracts.

If you try to see--you try, try, try, try, try.

Is that the cure for cataracts? No.

You will never be cured like that.

You must go to a physician, who will perform a surgical operation to restore your eyesight.

You cannot see by trying and trying.

Dr.Wolf-Rottkay: That is just what they do not want to accept--that all their efforts to know the truth by materialistic science have failed.

Srila Prabhupada: They are foolish.

They will not take good advice.

If you give a rascal some good advice, he will become angry, just like a serpent.

Suppose you bring a serpent into your home and say, "My dear serpent, please live with me.

Every day I will give you nice food--milk and bananas." The snake will be very pleased, but the result will be that its poison will increase, and one day you will say, "Ah!" [imitates a bitten person.] Dr.Wolf-Rottkay: But the scientists will never give up hope.

Srila Prabhupada: Their plans are being frustrated at every moment, but still they are hoping.

Student: Srila Prabhupada, one librarian wanted me to prove that Bhagavad-gita was five thousand years old.

He wanted to see a copy that was written down five thousand years ago.

Srila Prabhupada: Suppose I go into a dark room and say to the person inside, "The sun has risen.

Come out!" The person in darkness may say, "Where is the proof that there is light? First prove it to me; then I will come out." I may plead with him, "Please, please, just come out and see." But if he does not come out to see, he remains ignorant, waiting for proof.

So, if you simply read Bhagavadgita you will see everything.

Come and see.

Here is the proof.

The Sixteenth Morning Walk: December 10, 1973 Recorded on December 10, 1973, on the shores of the Pacific Ocean near Los Angeles Srila Prabhupada:is accompanied by Dr.Singh, Hrdayananda dasa Goswami and other students.

