# The Meaning of "Supreme"

Srila Prabhupada: What is the meaning of supremacy in this material world? Why do you accept President Nixon as the supreme person within your state? Dr.Singh: Because he has some power.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

And why is he supreme? Because as the government's number one servant, he gets the highest salary, has all the best facilities, and his order is final.

Dr.Singh: He has the power to convince others.

Srila Prabhupada: No.

You may not agree with him, but because he is supreme, you have to accept his order.

That is his position.

It does not depend on your acceptance or nonacceptance.

That is the meaning of supremacy, is it not? The Vedic literature says that one who has the symptoms of supremacy is fortunate.

The supremely fortunate person is God.

Laksmi-sahasra-sata-sambhramasevyamanam: "He is served by hundreds and thousands of laksmis, or goddesses of fortune." (Brahma-samhita 5.29) Here on this planet we are begging a little favor from the goddess of fortune.

But Krsna is always worshiped by many thousands of goddesses of fortune.

Dr.Singh: To conceive of anyone so fortunate is beyond our thinking capacity.

Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

Therefore Krsna is acintya, inconceivable.

We cannot estimate how great or fortunate He is! Acintya means "that which we cannot estimate." We can see only a part of God's opulence--this material nature--which is only a partial exhibition of God's potencies.

The Supreme Personality has many potencies.

He has inferior energies and superior energies.

In Bhagavad-gita (7.4) Krsna says: bhumir apo 'nalo vayuh kham mano buddhir eva ca ahankara itiyam me bhinna prakrtir astadha "Earth, water, fire, air, ether, mind, intelligence and false ego--all together these eight comprise My separated material energies." In the next verse of Bhagavad-gita, Krsna describes His superior energy (para prakrti), which is manifested as the spiritual world.

So, if in the inferior, material energy there are so many wonderful things, just imagine how much more important and how much more wonderful things are in the spiritual world.

This is the meaning of superior.

