# The Mysteries of Yogic Power

Hrdayananda dasa Goswami: And are all the varieties of life we see on earth contained in the spiritual world? Srila Prabhupada: Yes.

And, moreover, if in this inferior energy there are so many wonderful varieties of life, just think how wonderful are the superior varieties of life in the spiritual world.

Even in this material universe, the inhabitants of some planets are far superior to those on other planets.

For example, people on earth practice mystic yoga for achieving wonderful powers, but people on the planet called Siddhaloka have these great yogic powers naturally.

On earth it is natural that a bird can fly; but we cannot, except with costly machines.

However, on such planets as Siddhaloka, the residents can fly even from one planet to another without machines.

They can go to other planets simply at will.

Even on earth there are some yogis who can take their bath early in the morning in four places at once--Jagannatha Puri, Ramesvara, Hardwar and Dvaraka.[22] One yogi friend used to visit my father in Calcutta.

The yogi told him that when he (the yogi) would simply sit down and touch his guru, he would travel from Calcutta to Dvaraka in two minutes.

That is yogic power.

So what are today's airplanes? Durvasa Muni traveled all over the universe and up to Vaikuntha[23] within one year.

According to modern calculations, certain planets in this universe are more than forty thousand light-years[24] distant from the earth.

This means it would take forty thousand years to reach these planets if you traveled at the speed of light.

Even if they had the means, how could the astronauts live for forty thousand years? So, why are they so proud? Dr.Singh: The scientists have a theory that they can produce a machine that will travel at the speed of light.

Srila Prabhupada: That is rascaldom.

They say that, but they will never be able to do it.

