# Vedic Cosmology

Srila Prabhupada: There are many invisible planets and stars.

For example, when the Rahu planet passes before the sun and moon, there is an eclipse.

But the scientists describe an eclipse differently.

Actually, the Rahu planet causes an eclipse.

There are many questionable points regarding the modern scientists' theory of the eclipse.

Their explanation is incorrect according to Vedic information.

Dr.Singh: But the scientists say that they can prove their theories.

Srila Prabhupada: They say that science proves everything.

But that is nonsense.

The scientist has proved everything except what he is.

That he does not know.

And why does he die? That also he does not know.

That is the extent of his knowledge.

Dr.Singh: They can make a model of the universe.

They can make a model of the planets and the moon.

Srila Prabhupada: If they can make things, why don't they make an imitation sun to save electricity? These rascals say everything, but they cannot do anything.

That is their position.

If they can make a model of the universe, let them make a big model of the sun.

Then in the dark night we will not have to spend so much money on electricity.

But they cannot do it.

Yet they speak big, big words, simply to take money from the taxpayers.

They say they know the composition of the moon and the composition of the sun, so why can't they make them? Why can't they create an artificial sun so that the people of Iceland and Greenland can be saved from so much cold?

