# God Is Never Zero

Srila Prabhupada: Lord Caitanya Mahaprabhu once gave the example of the jewel called cintamani, which produces many other jewels while remaining as it is.

om purnam adah purnam idam purnat purnam udacyate purnasya purnam adaya purnam evavasisyate (Sri Isopanisad Invocation) The meaning of this verse is that although everything emanates from the Personality of Godhead, He never diminishes.

Here on earth the petrol is running out, and this is becoming a terrible problem, but the sun is still shining and will continue to shine for an untold number of years.

And Krsna can create millions of suns; in fact, He has already done so.

But He is still fully potent.

He has lost nothing.

That is God, and that is the supreme energy of God, acintya-sakti.

We have some money to spend, and the next day our account becomes zero.

Rascals say that ultimate truth is zero, sunyavada.

They do not know that God is never zero--that He is always positive.

So we must have a clear idea of God.

Theologians should take these ideas from Vedic descriptions and not be misled by fools and rascals.

God and His full energies are explained in the Vedic literatures.

Our energy is lost, but God's is not.

That is the difference between God and us.

I cannot walk swiftly or do so many other things that a young man can do, because I have lost my youthful energy.

But God is always youthful.

Advaitam acyutam anadim ananta-rupam adyam purana-purusam nava-yauvanam ca: "Krsna, the Supreme Personality of Godhead, is absolute, infallible and beginningless.

Expanded into unlimited forms, He is the original person, the oldest, and always appearing as a fresh youth." (Brahma-samhita 5.33) Krsna also says in Bhagavad-gita, isvarah sarva-bhutanam hrd-dese 'rjuna tisthati: "The Supreme Lord is situated in everyone's heart." He is also within every atom.

But still He is one.

That is God.

And He is advaita, without duality.

Not that He is living within your heart and a different personality is living within my heart.

No, they are one.

God is everywhere by His all-pervasive features, and He is also localized; yet He is still one.

