# The Absolute Nature of Krsna's Love

Dr.Singh: In some Western theological literature, Srila Prabhupada, they say that God is love.

Srila Prabhupada: God is everything.

Why do they say He is this or that? Anything is God because He is absolute.

His love and His enmity are the same.

In the material world, we distinguish between love and animosity.

But God's animosity and God's love are the same thing.

Therefore, He is called acintya.

or inconceivable.

God's love for the gopis[25] and God's enmity for Kamsa[26] achieved the same result.

Both Kamsa and the gopis went to the spiritual world.

Also, Putana[27] came to poison Krsna, and mother Yasoda was always anxious to save Krsna, the naughty child, lest He be harmed.

So mother Yasoda and Putana are opposite, but they both achieved the same results.

Krsna thought, "I have sucked Putana's breast, so now she is My mother.

She must reach the same destination as Yasoda." This is the absolute nature of Krsna's enmity and Krsna's love.

vadanti tat tattva-vidas tattvam yaj jnanam advayam brahmeti paramatmeti bhagavan iti sabdyate "Learned transcendentalists who know the Absolute Truth call this nondual substance Brahman, Paramatma or Bhagavan." (Srimad-Bhagavatam 1.2.11) God has His impersonal, all-pervasive feature (known as Brahman) and His localized Paramatma feature.

At the same time He is Bhagavan, which is His original, personal, transcendental form.

The three are different but the same.

This is the nature of God, acintya-bhedabheda-tattva--simultaneously one and different.

One who has reached the personal conception of Bhagavan has automatically reached Brahman and Paramatma.

They are all Krsna, but there is a difference between them.

They are simultaneously one and different.

